Document "Remix IDE" for asset hub smart contracts (#309)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix.md

---
title: Using Remix IDE
description: Explore the smart contract development and deployment process on Asset Hub using Remix IDE, a visual IDE for blockchain developers.
---

# Remix IDE

## Overview

Remix IDE is a robust browser-based development environment for smart contracts. This guide will walk you through the essentials of the [Polkadot Remix IDE](https://remix.polkadot.io/){target=\_blank} to understand the processes of compiling, developing, and deploying smart contracts on Asset Hub.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, ensure you have:

> - A web browser with [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) extension installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A web browser with [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/){target=\_blank} extension installed
```

- Basic understanding of Solidity programming
- Some test tokens to cover transaction fees (easily obtainable from [Polkadot faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/){target=\_blank})

## Accessing Remix IDE

Navigate to [https://remix.polkadot.io/](https://remix.polkadot.io/){target=\_blank}. The interface will load with a default workspace containing sample contracts.

![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-1.webp)

The interface is organized into three main sections: the Extensions panel on the right, the Code Editor in the center, and the File Explorer on the left.

## Creating a New Contract

To create a new contract using the Polkadot Remix IDE, you can follow these steps:

> 1. Click the **Create a new file** button in the **contracts** folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the **Create a new file** button in the `contracts` folder
```

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-2.webp)

2. Name your file with a `.sol` extension, in this case, `Counter.sol`

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-3.webp)

3. Write your Solidity code in the editor

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-4.webp)

    The code of the contract above is the following:

    ???- "Counter.sol"
        
        ```solidity
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/Counter.sol'
        ```

## Compiling Your Contract

> 1. To compile your contract, you need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To compile your contract, you need to:
```

> 1. To compile your contract, you need to

Reviewer 2: You have `1.` as a list item, but then there are no more items

>     1. Navigate to the Solidity Compiler tab (third icon in the left sidebar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Navigate to the **Solidity Compiler** tab (third icon in the left sidebar)
```

>     2. Click "Compile" or use `Ctrl+S`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Select**Compile** or use `Ctrl+S`
```

>     2. Select**Compile** or use `Ctrl+S`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Select **Compile** or use `Ctrl+S`
```

        ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-5.webp)
    
        !!! note

>             Compilation errors and warnings appear in the terminal panel at the bottom of the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Compilation errors and warnings appear in the terminal panel at the bottom of the screen.
```

> After compiling your contract, you can navigate to the **File Explorer** tab (first icon in the left sidebar) and check that the **artifact** folder exists and that the **Counter_metadata.json** and **Counter.json** files have also been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After compiling your contract, you can navigate to the **File Explorer** tab (first icon in the left sidebar) and check that the `artifact` folder exists and that the `Counter_metadata.json` and `Counter.json` files have also been created.
```

![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-6.webp)

## Deploying Contracts

> 1. To deploy your contract, you need to

Reviewer 2: Same here, delete the `1.` in this sentence and just leave the following steps as list items

> 1. To deploy your contract, you need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To deploy your contract, you need to:
```

    1. Navigate to the **Deploy & Run Transactions** tab (fourth icon in the left sidebar)
    2. Select your deployment environment, in this case, **Westend Testnet - MetaMask**

>     3. Click in the **Deploy and Confirm** button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Select the **Deploy and Confirm** button
```

>     3. Select the **Deploy and Confirm** button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    3. Click the **Deploy and Confirm** button
```

        ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-7.webp)

> Once your contract is deployed successfully, you will see the following output in the REMIX terminal:

Reviewer: Will you please indent this line and the image below it so they are inline with step 1 above? It just looks a little weird sticking out there.

Author: fixed in [d4c4d93](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/309/commits/d4c4d93ad4e771f520137c90280fd1cbc89fcdf7)

![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-8.webp)

## Interacting with Contracts

Once deployed, your contract appears in the **Deployed/Unpinned Contracts** section:

1. Expand the contract to view available methods

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-9.webp)

    !!! tip
        Pin your frequently used contracts to the **Pinned Contracts** section for easy access.

> 2. To interact with the contract, you can click on any of the exposed methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To interact with the contract, you can select any of the exposed methods
```

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-10.webp)

>     In this manner, you can interact with your deployed contract either by reading its state or by writing to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this way, you can interact with your deployed contract by reading its state or writing to it.
```

>     In this way, you can interact with your deployed contract by reading its state or writing to it.

Reviewer 2: You can also add that the color of the button represents the kind of interaction you can do:
red - modify state + payable
orange - modify state
blue - read state

## Where to Go Next

> The Polkadot Remix IDE offers a robust environment for developing, compiling, and deploying smart contracts on Asset Hub. Its intuitive interface allows developers to easily write Solidity code, compile contracts, and interact with them directly in the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Polkadot Remix IDE offers an environment for developing, compiling, and deploying smart contracts on Asset Hub. Its intuitive interface allows developers to easily write Solidity code, compile contracts, and interact with them directly in the browser.
```

Explore more about smart contracts through these resources:

> - [Frontier](https://github.com/polkadot-evm/frontier){target=\_blank} repository – learn about EVM compatibility on Polkadot-SDK-based chains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Frontier**](https://github.com/polkadot-evm/frontier){target=\_blank} **repository** – learn about EVM compatibility on Polkadot-SDK-based chains
```

> - [**Frontier**](https://github.com/polkadot-evm/frontier){target=\_blank} **repository** – learn about EVM compatibility on Polkadot-SDK-based chains

Reviewer 2: I don't think Frontier is relevant in the context of Asset Hub smart contracts

> - [Smart Contracts on Polkadot](/develop/smart-contracts/){target=\_blank} – dive into advanced contract development techniques

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Smart Contracts on Polkadot**](/develop/smart-contracts/){target=\_blank} – dive into advanced contract development techniques
```

> - [OpenZeppelin contracts](https://www.openzeppelin.com/solidity-contracts){target=\_blank} – test your skills by deploying a sample dApp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**OpenZeppelin contracts**](https://www.openzeppelin.com/solidity-contracts){target=\_blank} – test your skills by deploying a sample dApp
```

        ```

## Compiling Your Contract

1. To compile your contract, you need to:

    1. Navigate to the **Solidity Compiler** tab (third icon in the left sidebar)
    2. Select **Compile** or use `Ctrl+S`

        ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-5.webp)
    
        !!! note
            Compilation errors and warnings appear in the terminal panel at the bottom of the screen.

1. After compiling your contract, you can navigate to the **File Explorer** tab (first icon in the left sidebar):
    1. Verify that the `artifact` folder is present
    2. Ensure the `Counter_metadata.json` and `Counter.json` files have been generated

        ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-6.webp)

## Deploying Contracts

1. To deploy your contract, you need to:

    1. Navigate to the **Deploy & Run Transactions** tab (fourth icon in the left sidebar)
    2. Select your deployment environment, in this case, **Westend Testnet - MetaMask**
    3. Click the **Deploy and Confirm** button

        ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-7.webp)

> 2. Once your contract is deployed successfully, you will see the following output in the REMIX terminal:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Once your contract is deployed successfully, you will see the following output in the Remix terminal:
```

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-8.webp)

## Interacting with Contracts

Once deployed, your contract appears in the **Deployed/Unpinned Contracts** section:

1. Expand the contract to view available methods

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-9.webp)

    !!! tip

>         Pin your frequently used contracts to the **Pinned Contracts** section for easy access.

Reviewer 3: Nice

2. To interact with the contract, you can select any of the exposed methods

    ![](/images/develop/smart-contracts/evm-toolkit/dev-environments/remix/remix-10.webp)

    In this way, you can interact with your deployed contract by reading its state or writing to it. The button color indicates the type of interaction available:

    - Red - modifies state and is payable
    - Orange - modifies state only
    - Blue - reads state

## Where to Go Next

The Polkadot Remix IDE offers an environment for developing, compiling, and deploying smart contracts on Asset Hub. Its intuitive interface allows developers to easily write Solidity code, compile contracts, and interact with them directly in the browser.

> Explore more about smart contracts through these resources:

Reviewer 3: What about using cards here? I think if it's an external resource we can create a new badge for that. wdyt?

Author: Yes, I agree. I think it's important to maintain consistency with the rest of the pages. WDYT about using "External Ref" as the badge for that?

Reviewer 3: I tried it out, but I think it looks better if it's one word. Maybe either "External" or "Reference"? I kinda like "Reference" a little bit better 🤷‍♀️ 

I created the styling for it in this PR: https://github.com/papermoonio/polkadot-mkdocs/pull/73

Author: got it, approved and merged, let me do one more commit here to add these styles

---

> title: Using the Polkadot Remix IDE to interact with Asset Hub

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Use the Polkadot Remix IDE
```

We'll have to shorten this just a little bit. `| Polkadot Developer Docs` gets appended to the end of these titles. And they should max out at like 60 characters. There was one I recommended to change the other day that I know was over 60 characters, so we'll see if it gets flagged in our reports and sort of take things from there. But for this particular one, I think we can just shorten it
